Malaysian social media was ablaze with videos of protests and rioting happening at J&T Express Malaysia warehouse this weekend. One clip showed workers throwing parcels while protesting in a warehouse, while another allegedly in a Perak warehouse showed mountains of undelivered parcels and unloaded delivery trucks. The issue appears to have arised from a change in the commission system, which allegedly drastically reduced the earnings of a delivery rider. However, J&T Express has not released an official statement regarding the matter. According to their website J&T Express prides itself on being at the “core of e-commerce express” with a delivery system based on “top-notch modernised e-technology.” Their delivery system is currently utilised by Shopee Malaysia, PG Mall, Oppo Malaysia and realme Malaysia. As many online shoppers now note that their parcels are in limbo, or undelivered, one particularly determined customer outlines how she managed to seek damages for an undelivered parcel via J&T Express. Facebook user Aida Shuzana explained that once her parcel went missing from the J&T Express Batu Caves warehouse on 4th January, she immediately began making official reports with PDRM, Malaysian Communications and Multimedia Commission (MCMC) and with J&T Express. Aida also notes in her experience with J&T Express’ procedure, customers must submit claims 5 days after making a missing parcel report. If the parcel is recovered after the claim is paid, it becomes property of the company. Instead, she decided to take the matter up to the small claims court. Do note that not all Malaysian courthouses have a small claims division, so it’s best to check before. According to Aida, she went to Sepang Courthouse and filled in the small claims form obtained from the courthouse’s registration office. Ensure that you have the name, IC number, defendant’s Companies Commission of Malaysia (SSM) registration number and their address. Hand over the complete form back to the counter for the case to be filed. A RM20 registration fee is required, but only can be paid via credit or debit as cash is not accepted. The trial will commence in the courthouse within the jurisdiction where the parcel was lost. For Aida, the case will be heard in Selayang Magistrate Court as her parcel went missing in Batu Caves. The court will then e-mail the Writ of Summons number along with the date and location of the trial. Aida stresses to make sure to post a printed version of the Writ of Summons to the defendant. She used Pos Malaysia’s registered mail service that provides acknowledgement of receipt (AR) to confirm that the defendant has received the documents. All documents, including a copy of the consignment note, must be kept carefully to be handed in at the trial. Do take note that the Malaysian small claims court only applies for claims RM5,000 and below. No lawyer is required at the small claims court. According to Aida, if the claim has been paid by the company, this lawsuit is automatically annulled and the case is closed. 